hashicorp.vault release process (#58)
ansible-collections/cloud-content-handbook: Releases/release_collections.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a PR in the collection to merge the changes made in the release prep PR to the `main` branch. This can be done manually or using the `cherry-pick` command as shown below:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **NOTE:** For the [`amazon.aws`](https://github.com/ansible-collections/amazon.aws) and [`community.aws`](https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.aws) collections _only_, an additional version value that needs to be incremented is `AMAZON_AWS_COLLECTION_VERSION` in [`plugins/module_utils/common.py`](https://github.com/ansible-collections/amazon.aws/blob/5100ca0d861fec6a9ef88d55c98c656fe345c149/plugins/module_utils/common.py#L7).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **NOTE:** For the [`amazon.aws`](https://github.com/ansible-collections/amazon.aws) and [`community.aws`](https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.aws) collections _only_, an additional version value that needs to be incremented is `AMAZON_AWS_COLLECTION_VERSION` in [`plugins/module_utils/common.py`](https://github.com/ansible-collections/amazon.aws/blob/5100ca0d861fec6a9ef88d55c98c656fe345c149/plugins/module_utils/common.py#L7).
```

* For a **minor release**, make sure the backport of the PRs from the `main` branch to the release branch is successful. For more information on backporting PRs, refer to [the backporting page](https://github.com/ansible-collections/cloud-content-handbook/blob/main/backport_changes.md) of the team handbook.

> * Before starting the release preparation, pull the latest changes from `main` to `stable-X`:

Reviewer 2: This step can be skipped if we implement the backport process as it is for any other collection

Author: updated the note mentioning that it should be handled with `backport-x` label, but can also be done manually while backporting is not working, and it is important to make sure latest main changes are present in stable-x before release.

>    > ** HashiCorp Vault Collection (`hashicorp.vault`)**: Before starting the release preparation, pull the latest changes from `main` to `stable-X`:

Reviewer 3: This applies to all collections. Is it necessary to mention it separately for the Hashi collection?

* For a **minor release**, make sure the backport of the PRs from the `main` branch to the release branch is successful. For more information on backporting PRs, refer to [the backporting page](https://github.com/ansible-collections/cloud-content-handbook/blob/main/Releases/backport_changes.md) of the team handbook.

* Before starting the release preparation, make sure that latest `main` changes are present in `stable-x`.
  This should be handled by backport once workflow is up and running, but if required it can be done manually by pulling the latest changes from `main` to `stable-X` with below:
   ```
   git checkout stable-X
   git pull upstream main
   git push upstream stable-X
   ```

> 

Author: updated to specify hashicorp.vault specifically where needed

_Note : If the sanity tests fail locally or in the CI, the failures have to be addressed in a separate PR_

* **Tag the version in Git and push to GitHub** (standard collections):

   ```
   git tag -m "Release <version>" <version>
   git push upstream <version>
   ```

   > ** HashiCorp Vault Collection (`hashicorp.vault`)**: Instead of tagging directly, create a GitHub Release:
   > 1. Navigate to the [Releases page](https://github.com/ansible-automation-platform/hashicorp.vault/releases) and select `Draft a new release`
   > 2. Use `stable-X` as the target branch
   > 3. Create a new tag with the version number (e.g., `1.1.0`)
   > 4. **IMPORTANT**: Do NOT use the 'v' prefix in the tag (use `1.1.0`, not `v1.1.0`). Partner Engineering for Automation Hub only accepts semantic versioning format `x.y.z`
   > 5. Add release notes (typically copied from the CHANGELOG)
   > 6. Publish the release
   >
   > Once published, the [`release_ah` workflow](https://github.com/ansible-automation-platform/hashicorp.vault/actions/workflows/release_ah.yml) will automatically trigger to build and publish to Automation Hub. Monitor the workflow to ensure it completes successfully.

> * **Once the [CI for the release](https://ansible.softwarefactory-project.io/zuul/status) passes** (standard collections), post a message on the `#ansible-partners` Slack channel requesting an approval for any supported content collections (e.g., `amazon.aws`) for Automation Hub.

Reviewer 3: Informing the PE team should be done for all collections.

>    > ** HashiCorp Vault Collection (`hashicorp.vault`)**: Skip the Zuul CI step - the GitHub Actions workflow handles publishing automatically. You may still need to inform the Partner Engineering team on the `#ansible-partners` channel after the workflow completes successfully.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   > ** HashiCorp Vault Collection (`hashicorp.vault`)**: Skip the Zuul CI step - the GitHub Actions workflow handles publishing automatically. You must inform the Partner Engineering team on the `#ansible-partners` channel after the workflow completes successfully.
```

   **NOTE:** For the [`amazon.aws` collection](https://github.com/ansible-collections/amazon.aws) _only_, an additional version value that needs to be incrememented in the case of a major release is `AMAZON_AWS_COLLECTION_VERSION` in [`plugins/module_utils/common.py`](https://github.com/ansible-collections/amazon.aws/blob/5100ca0d861fec6a9ef88d55c98c656fe345c149/plugins/module_utils/common.py#L7).

> # HashiCorp Vault Collection Release Process

Reviewer 3: Can these steps be integrated into the set of steps mentioned above?  we could add a note, or a separate section, or a separate document for the steps that differ. I suggest this because anyone following the above steps for all collections might not realize there’s an additional set of steps specific to the Hashi collection until they get to this section.

   git pull upstream main
   git push upstream stable-X
   ```

3. **Create a GitHub Release**: Navigate to the [Releases page](https://github.com/ansible-automation-platform/hashicorp.vault/releases) in the repository and select `Draft a new release`:
   * Use `stable-X` as the target branch
   * Create a new tag with the version number (e.g., `1.1.0`)
   * **IMPORTANT**: Do NOT use the 'v' prefix in the tag (use `1.1.0`, not `v1.1.0`). Partner Engineering for Automation Hub only accepts semantic versioning format `x.y.z`
   * Add release notes (typically copy from the CHANGELOG)
   * Publish the release

4. **GitHub Actions Pipeline**: Once the GitHub release is created, the [`release_ah` workflow](https://github.com/ansible-automation-platform/hashicorp.vault/actions/workflows/release_ah.yml) will automatically trigger and:
   * Build the collection artifact
   * Publish to Automation Hub

5. Monitor the GitHub Actions workflow to ensure it completes successfully. If the automated upload fails, you can perform a manual upload following the instructions [here](https://github.com/ansible-collections/cloud-content-handbook/blob/main/Releases/release_automation_hub.md).

> 6. Continue with the remaining standard steps (informing partner engineering on #ansible-partners channel, verify on Automation Hub, announce in Bullhorn, sync main after release, etc.)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. Continue with the remaining standard steps (informing the Partner Engineering team on #ansible-partners channel, verify on Automation Hub, announce in Bullhorn, sync `main` after release, etc.)
```

* Push the branch to your fork and create a PR into the `main` branch of the upstream repository. Once the CI passes and the PR is approved by the required number of maintainers (typically at least 4), merge it to the `main` branch.

---

## HashiCorp Vault collection (`hashicorp.vault`) — where it differs

> For **hashicorp.vault**, use the **same steps as for any other collection** (including minor releases): version increment, branching, preparing the collection, prep branch, `galaxy.yml`, CHANGELOG, prep PR, merge, and "Synchronizing main" — all as described above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `hashicorp.vault` collection follows the same release process as other collections, with one additional step after tagging.
```

> For **hashicorp.vault**, use the **same steps as for any other collection** (including minor releases): version increment, branching, preparing the collection, prep branch, `galaxy.yml`, CHANGELOG, prep PR, merge, and "Synchronizing main" — all as described above.

Reviewer 5: what do you mean by (including minor releases)? Don't the same steps apply for any kind of relase?

2. **Select the tag you pushed**
   * In "Choose a tag", select the **existing tag** you created and pushed (e.g. `1.1.0`). Do **not** use a `v` prefix — use `1.1.0`, not `v1.1.0`. Partner Engineering expects semantic versioning format `x.y.z`.
   * Set the target to the appropriate branch (e.g. **`stable-X`**) if prompted.

3. **Release title and notes**
   * Set the release title to the version (e.g. `1.1.0`).
   * Add release notes (typically copy from `CHANGELOG.rst` for this version).

4. **Publish the release**
   * Click **Publish release**.

5. **GitHub Action**
   * Publishing the release triggers the **[`release_ah` workflow](https://github.com/ansible-automation-platform/hashicorp.vault/actions/workflows/release_ah.yml)**, which builds and publishes the collection to Automation Hub.
   * Monitor the workflow run to ensure it completes successfully.

6. **After the workflow succeeds**
   * Skip the Zuul CI step; the GitHub Actions workflow handles publishing.
   * After the workflow completes successfully, inform the Partner Engineering team on the **`#ansible-partners`** Slack channel about the release.

7. **Validation**

>    * Check the latest version on [Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com) and Automation Hub as needed.

Reviewer 5: Can you please remove any reference to ansible-galaxy and it does not apply for this collection? Thanks.

7. **Validation**

>    * Check the latest version on Automation Hub as needed.

Reviewer 6: Should we add how to check the latest version is in AutomationHub?

> **Note:** For hashicorp.vault, the backport workflow is not currently running. Before starting release preparation, follow the same "Before starting the release preparation" checks above and do manual backports as needed (see [backporting guidelines](https://github.com/ansible-collections/cloud-content-handbook/blob/main/Releases/backport_changes.md)); do not merge `main` directly into `stable-X`.

Reviewer 5: I'll move this at the beginning so that this step is not missed before preparing the release PR or somewhere else where it pops out.
